What is a database? 
    It stores and organises data.

How does it store data? What is a table?
    In the form of a table. As rows and columns. A table stores related data. 

What are primary keys?
    Primary Keys keep everything unique. 

What are foreign keys?
    References a primary key in another table. 

What is a surrogate primary key?
    When you don't have a primary key, made up of different columns. Could be a combination of these columnns.

What is a tuple? 
    It is another name for a row. 

What is an attribute?
    Another name for a single cell. 

What is a field?
    Another name for a cell. 

What is atomicity?
    An atomic attribute is an attribute that is not further breakable. Like first name. A combination of first name and last name in a column is non atomic. 

What is normalization?
    Breaking a table into multiple tables to remove redundancies. There can be multiple normal forms, 1, 2 ,3 ,4 etc. 

ERD?

    Entitiy relationship diagrams. These are diagrams representing the relationships between different tables. 

RDMS?

    Relational database management systems. A relation is another word for a table. 

Notes on primary keys:
    A primary key has to be unique. It cannot be null. Values of a primary key musn't change. A person always has a unique SSN, for example. They don't go about changing their SSNs everyday. 

Foreign Keys:

    A key used as a reference to another table. A primary key in one table could be a foreign key in another table. For example if one table consits of users, and another table posts, user id could be a primary key used to fetch post details from the posts table via its user id foreign key. 

Relationships?

    There are three types of relationships one to one, one to many, many to many. 

    One to one -> Two people cannot have the same social security number. A will always be A and B will always be B.

    One to many -> A teacher can teach multiple disciplines, but each discipline has one teacher. 

    many to many -> Authors, two authors could have written two books. 



