Databases:

    What is a database?
        A place where collection of data is stored. Databases could be relational and non relational.

    A database is managed by a database management system. 

    Data is stored in rows and columns. 

    What is a DBMS? 
        It is a software used to store, retrieve, define and manage data. 
        
        Popular DBMS->
            Microsoft SQL Server
            MySQL
            Oracle Database
            PostGreSQL
            MariaDb
            Amazon RDS
            Google Cloud SQL
        
        Amazon RDS and Google Cloud SQL are cloud based databases. 

    Different Types of Databases:
        SQL:
            OLAP
            OLTP
                Online Transactional Processing databases are commonly used where CRUD operations are frequent. Examples include banking, retail etc.
                Data is structured. 
                Highly Normalized Data -> There are relationships between tables. Normalization means splitting a big table into multiple smaller tables to remove data duplication issues. 
                Since tables are usually normalized, in order to retreive data for analytics complex queries need to be written. 
                Schemas and schematic diagrams are predefined, before tables are populated. 
                Optimized for data collection, not analytics

                OLTP ACID?
                    ACID stands for Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation and Durability.  
                    MySQL is not Acid Compliant, however its engine INNO Db is. 

                    Atomicity-> Transaction either happens or not. 
                    Consistency-> Data is consistent before and after the transaction.
                    Isolation-> Multiple transactions happen without affecting one another and parallely. 
                    Durability-> Transactions are not vulnerable to system failures. Once a transaction is stored, it is stored. 

        NO SQL:
            Key Value : JSON (Exampple)
            Graph Database: Neo4J


SQL->(SEQUEL)
    It is a language used to interact with a database. 
    Most modern databases use ANSI standards for SQL. ANSI stands for American National Standards Institute.
    SQL example:
        select * from customers. This line will retrieve all data in the customers table. 

Spreadsheet vs Database?

    Limited Number of rows and columns in a Spreadsheet
    A spreadsheet loads all of the data. A database will only load data given by an SQL Query. 

